# INST126-Fall2020-Project-2
Project 2 - Hangman Game/Flowcharts
## Explaining the Code
### The overall goals of Project 2 were to create a hangman game using python, make a flowchart to implement the hangman game, utilizing the decrypt() function in order to decode the guessed word, and making another flowchart for the decryption mechanism.
### To create the hangman game, I started by asking the user to enter their name (name = input("What is your name? ")), as well as wishing them good luck (print("Good luck!", name)). After that, I listed the words given to us, and used "random.choice(words)" so that pyton selected a random word from the list. I then prompted the user to guess the character (print("Guess the characters")), and set the maximum amount of turns to be 10. Next, I used a "while" statement to show when turns are greater than 0 and also counted the number of times a user fails. I then used a "for" statement which took all the characters from the input taken at one time. After utilizing the "for" statement, I used an "if" and "else" statement to compare the particular character with the character in the guesses. I utilized "failed += 1" to show that for every failure, one will be incremented in the failure section. After that I utilized another "if" statement (if failed == 0:) to show that the user will win the game if failure is equal to 0, and I also prompted the user that they would win (print("You Win!")) and it would show the encrypted word, along with the decrypted word as a result (print("The encrypted word is:", word)),(print("The decrypted word is:", decrypt(word)). I then used another input function saying "Guess the character:" if the user has input the wrong character and they need to guess another one. If the inputted character is not a character contained within the word, the number of turns is subtracted by 1. Also, if the character was not contained within the word, "Wrong" would be given as the output and it will say the number of turns that the user has left. Finally, I used an "if" statement to show if the number of turns left equals to 0, then the given output would say "You Lose!" while also giving the correct word. 
### For Part 2 of the project, we were given the task to decode the guessed word. In order to do this, I first implemented the "decrypt" function with "ciphertext" being the input parameter. After that, I used "for" statement for "i" in the range of 0, to the length of the ciphertext. I then utilized an "if" statement to show that if the character correlated to an even number on the ASCII table, it would subtract 1 value from it, in which provided the character before it. I also used an "else" statement to show that if the character correlated to an odd number onthe ASCII table, it would add 1 value to it, which provided the character after it. Finally, I used a "return" statement to show the plaintext, also known as, the decrypted word.
